Claude 3 Haiku: our fastest model yet \ AnthropicSkip to main contentSkip to footer
Research
Policy
Commitments
Learn
News
Try Claude
Announcements
Claude 3 Haiku: our fastest model yet
Mar 13, 2024
Today we’re releasing Claude 3 Haiku, the fastest and most affordable model in its intelligence class. With state-of-the-art vision capabilities and strong performance on industry benchmarks, Haiku is a versatile solution for a wide range of enterprise applications. The model is now available alongside Sonnet and Opus in the Claude API and on claude.ai for our Claude Pro subscribers.
Speed is essential for our enterprise users who need to quickly analyze large datasets and generate timely output for tasks like customer support. Claude 3 Haiku is three times faster than its peers for the vast majority of workloads, processing 21K tokens (~30 pages) per second for prompts under 32K tokens [1]. It also generates swift output, enabling responsive, engaging chat experiences and the execution of many small tasks in tandem.
Haiku's pricing model, with a 1:5 input-to-output token ratio, was designed for enterprise workloads which often involve longer prompts. Businesses can rely on Haiku to quickly analyze large volumes of documents, such as quarterly filings, contracts, or legal cases, for half the cost of other models in its performance tier. For instance, Claude 3 Haiku can process and analyze 400 Supreme Court cases [2] or 2,500 images [3] for just one US dollar.
Alongside its speed and affordability, Claude 3 Haiku prioritizes enterprise-grade security and robustness. We conduct rigorous testing to reduce the likelihood of harmful outputs and jailbreaks of our models so they are as safe as possible. Additional layers of defense include continuous systems monitoring, endpoint hardening, secure coding practices, strong data encryption protocols, and stringent access controls to protect sensitive data. We also conduct regular security audits and work with experienced penetration testers to proactively identify and address vulnerabilities. More information about these measures can be found in the Claude 3 model card.
Starting today, customers can use Claude 3 Haiku through our API or with a Claude Pro subscription on claude.ai. Claude 3 Haiku is available on Amazon Bedrock and will be coming soon to Google Cloud Vertex AI.
Footnotes
[1] Prompts containing over 32K tokens may experience 30-60% slower ingestion speeds, which we expect to improve in the coming weeks. Customers may also experience additional latency when processing images.
[2] Each Supreme Court case is estimated at 10K tokens each. Source.
[3] Each image is estimated at 1.6K tokens.
Related content
Claude discovers a novel enzyme system with CRISPR-like repeats
We’re announcing a new life sciences research group and laboratory at Anthropic. This post introduces the team behind this work and shares early results in which Claude discovered a novel enzyme system with properties reminiscent of CRISPR, with only high-level direction from our scientists.
Read more
Partnering with Accenture on embedded evaluation
Read more
Introducing the Life Sciences Verification Program
The Life Sciences Verification Program (LSVP) gives life science professionals access to Claude Mythos, Opus, and Sonnet models with a refined set of safeguards more permissive for biology-related work.
Read more
Products
Claude
Claude Code
Claude Code Enterprise
Claude Cowork
@Claude
Claude Design
Claude Science
Claude Security
Claude in Chrome
Claude for Microsoft 365
Skills
Download app
Pricing
Log in to Claude
Models
Mythos
Fable
Opus
Sonnet
Haiku
Solutions
AI agents
Code modernization
Coding
Commerce
Customer support
Cybersecurity
Enterprise
Financial services
Government
Healthcare
Higher education
K-12 teachers
Legal
Life sciences
Nonprofits
Sales
Small business
Claude Platform
Overview
Developer docs
Pricing
Ecosystem
Marketplace
Regional compliance
Claude on AWS
Google Cloud
Microsoft Foundry
Console login
Resources
Blog
Claude partner network
Community
Connectors
Courses
Customer stories
Developer blog
Engineering at Anthropic
Events
Plugins
Powered by Claude
Service partners
Tutorials
Use cases
Programs
Startups
Scientists
Help and security
Availability
Status
Support center
Company
Anthropic
Careers
Leadership
Policy
Economic Futures
Research
News
Claude’s Constitution
Claude Corps
Keep thinking
Policy on the AI Exponential
Responsible Scaling Policy
Security and compliance
Transparency
Terms and policies
Privacy policy
Consumer health data privacy policy
Responsible disclosure policy
Terms of service: Commercial
Terms of service: Consumer
Terms of Service: US K-12
Data Processing Agreement: US K-12
Usage policy
© 2026 Anthropic PBC. Services in the EU are provided by Anthropic Ireland Limited.